
# bind

## Intro
bind - assigns address name to a socket

## Description
The bind() system call assigns the address specified by addr to the socket 
referred to by the file descriptor sockfd. For AF_INET sockets, the bind() 
system call binds addr to the address whose port number is specified in addr 
and whose Internet address is any address. Only one process may bind to a
specific port. 

The  addrlen  argument  specifies the size, in bytes, of the address structure
pointed to by addr. For more information about addrlen requirements for 
different address families, refer to the manual page for addrlen. 

There might be cases where bind() could produce an error due to limits concerning
the number of port numbers from 0 to  1023 that are reserved for internal use 
and privileged operations (e.g. by root processes).

## Arguments
* `sockfd`:`int` - file descriptor used in the bind system call. 
* `addr`:`struct sockaddr*`[KU] - pointer to a structure of sockaddr for the 
address that should be bound. 
* `addrlen`:`int`[K] OPT - length of the sockaddr structure that is pointed by 
addr.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### sys_bind
#### Type
Kprobes 
#### Purpose
To track bind’s execution from kernel space.

### sock_bind
#### Type
Kprobes
#### Purpose
To track bind’s execution from user space.

## Example Use Case
The bind() system call is useful for limiting the scope of applications running 
on the same host. By using the bind() system call, different applications can 
explicitly bind to a specific IP address and assign certain port numbers, so 
that two applications on the same host are not using the same port number.

## Issues
The bind() system call can only bind to a specific port number once. If the same 
port number is asked to be bound to more than one application, it can produce an 
error and therefore result in undesired behavior. 

## Related Events
connect(), listen(), accept(), sendto()

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
