
# chdir

## Intro
chdir - Change the current working directory

## Description
The chdir syscall allows the user to set the current working directory and affects the behavior of subsequent path-related syscals. The argument provided is a const char pointer, which points to the directory to which the working directory should be set. If a path is specified that does not exist or is not accessible, a -1 error code is returned

## Arguments
* `path`:const char* - Pointer to a C-style string that holds the path of the directory to be set as the current working directory

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### sys\_chdir
#### Type
Kprobe
#### Purpose
To monitor and measure execution of the chdir syscall 

## Example Use Case
In some situation, it is useful to monitor chdir syscall invocations and to get various stats regarding their execution. One example of a situation that could benefit from this is separate attempts to change the working directory in a program. This data can be used to better understand the program's behavior or to detect any suspicious activity.

## Issues
None.

## Related Events
* execve - Execute program

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
