
# clock_getres_time32
## Intro
clock_getres_time32 - retrieves the resolution of the specified clock.

## Description
clock_getres_time32 retrives the resolution of the specified clock in struct old_timespec32 variable provided in the tp argument. This function allows information about the resolution of the clock to be queried, for use in accurately measuring time intervals. 

clock_getres_time32 exists for backward compatibility with 32bit systems, in replacement to clock_getres which takes timespec structure as an argument.

## Arguments
* `which_clock`:`clockid_t`[K] - clock id use to query its resolution.  Supported clocks are the same as with clock_gettime.
* `tp`:`struct old_timespec32*`[KU] - pointer to a buffer where the resolution of the clock will be stored.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)

## Hooks
### sys_clock_getres_time32
#### Type
Kprobe
#### Purpose
To monitor and trace the execution of clock_getres_time32 syscall.

## Example Use Case
clock_getres_time32 can be useful in various timing-related projects. For example, it can be used to compare the resolution of different clocks, or query a clock's resolution before a precise time measurement is taken with clock_gettime.

## Issues
None.

## Related Events
* clock_gettime - query the current time
* clock_getres - query the resolution of a clock (64bit version)

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
