
# clock_settime32

## Intro
clock_settime32 - set the time of the specified clock

## Description
clock_settime32() sets the time of the clock specified by which_clock to the time given by tp.  

Advantages of using clock_settime32 is that it provides a way to set the time of the specified clock with a precision of nanoseconds, while drawbacks are that it doesn't change the system time, nor the time obtained with other clocks such as CLOCK_REALTIME.

## Arguments
* `which_clock`:`clockid_t` - ID of the clock to set. 
* `tp`:`struct old_timespec32*` - pointer to a struct containing the new time of the specified clock. 

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)

## Hooks
### do_sys_clock_settime
#### Type
Kprobe + Kretprobe
#### Purpose
Hooked for observability purposes, to measure the execution time of clock_settime32 syscall and collect per-thread and per-process scenarios, such as library calls and user delay calls.

## Example Use Case
clock_settime32 can be used to synchronize multiple applications running on the same machine by setting the same clock time with the same specified clock.

## Issues
None.

## Related Events
clock_gettime32 syscall.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
