
# epoll_create

## Intro
epoll_create - create an epoll file descriptor

## Description
The epoll_create() system call creates an epoll instance. It takes a single argument size, which defines the maximum number of file descriptors that can be monitored by the instance. The size argument is used to determine the amount of memory consumed by the epoll instance, which is allocated upon creating the instance. This memory is released when the instance is closed by calling the close() system call.

The epoll_create() system call has several advantages:
* Allows the registration of multiple file descriptors.
* Registering of multiple processes and signals.
* It has an efficient memory usage.
* It has a low latency for waking up appliy so the system can acquire data.

epoll_create() can be used for monitoring non-blocking or non-blocking sockets. It can also be used to keep track of multiple processes and signals.

## Arguments
* `size`:`int` - Maximum number of file descriptors that can be monitored by the instance.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.

## Hooks
### ep_create_files_struct
#### Type
kprobes
#### Purpose
To intercept the system call when creating a new epoll instance.

### files_free
#### Type
kretprobes
#### Purpose
To intercept the system call when closing an epoll instance to free the allocated memory.

## Example Use Case
The epoll_create() system call can be used to monitor a directory for changes. For example, in an application that monitors a directory for new files, the epoll_create() system call can be used to create an epoll instance for the directory, and then the application can wait for the incoming files using the epoll_wait() system call.

## Issues
The performance of epoll_create() degrades on large datasets due to the added complexity of the constant addition and removal of file descriptors from the instance.

## Related Events
* `epoll_ctl` - control interface for an epoll instance
* `epoll_wait` - wait for an I/O event on an epoll instance

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
