
# `epoll_wait`

## Intro
`epoll_wait` - waits for an I/O event on an epoll file descriptor

## Description
`epoll_wait` is a system call used to wait for I/O events on an epoll file descriptor. It is similar to `poll`, but with better scalability for large numbers of monitored file descriptors. It returns when either an I/O event has been detected or the timeout has expired.

The main advantage of using `epoll_wait` is increased scalability, since `poll` and `select` perform worse as the number of monitored events increases. However, there are some drawbacks to using `epoll_wait`. For example, `epoll_wait` is not a real-time system call, meaning that there can be a significant lag between events being triggered and them being handled by `epoll_wait`. Additionally, `epoll_wait` can be more complicated to use since it requires a more involved setup procedure.

## Arguments
* `epfd`:`int` - the epoll file descriptor created with `epoll_create`
* `events`:`struct epoll_event*`[U] - pointer to a buffer where the events will be returned
* `maxevents`:`int` - the maximum number of events that can be returned
* `timeout`:`int` - the timeout in milliseconds; or -1 to wait indefinitely

### Available Tags
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)

## Hooks
### `sys_epoll_wait`
#### Type
kprobe
#### Purpose
To trace I/O events on an epoll file descriptor

## Example Use Case
An example use case for `epoll_wait` would be a real-time application that needs to process incoming network traffic.

## Issues
There is a known bug in `epoll_wait` related to the `maxevents` argument. If the `maxevents` argument is greater than the number of available events, the `timeout` argument may not be taken into account correctly.

## Related Events
* `epoll_ctl` - add or delete file descriptors to/from an epoll file descriptor
* `epoll_create` - create a new epoll file descriptor
* `epoll_create1` - create a new epoll file descriptor

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
