
# fcntl

## Intro
fcntl - Manipulates file descriptor

## Description
The fcntl system call is used to manipulate a file descriptor.  It can be used to read and modify the flags associated with a particular file descriptor, including changing the non-blocking status and closing the file descriptor. It can also be used to implement file locking, sharing file descriptors between processes, and more.

The function takes three arguments, a file descriptor ``fd``, an action ``cmd``, and an argument ``arg``. Depending on the action, the argument may or may not be used and can contain various values.

## Arguments
* `fd`:`int` - The file descriptor to manipulate.
* `cmd`:`int` - The type of operation to perform.
* `arg`:`unsigned long` - An optional argument for some of the operations.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### sys_fcntl
#### Type
Kprobe + Kretprobe.
#### Purpose
To trace all calls to sys_fcntl and return values.

## Example Use Case
Tracking all attempts to change the non-blocking status of any file descriptor for debugging or security purposes.

## Issues
None.

## Related Events
* open
* close
* read
* write
* lseek

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
