
# flistxattr

## Intro
flistxattr - get a list of extented attributes of the file associated with a given file descriptor

## Description
The `flistxattr` system call is used to get the list of extended attribute names associated with a given file descriptor. It returns a buffer containing a list of the names of all of the extended attributes associated with the file, with each name separated by a null byte ('\0'). The size of the buffer is specified in the argument `size`. If the size is not large enough, -1 is returned and `errno` is set to `ERANGE`.

This system call is different from `listxattr` in the sense that instead of giving the path of the file in question, it receives its file descriptor, which means `flistxattr` only get the list of attributes of the exact file associated with the given descriptors, whereas `listxattr` can get the list of attributes of any file given its path.

## Arguments
* `fd`:`int`[K] - file descriptor of the target file, from which the extended attributes should be listed.
* `list`:`char*`[U] - pointer to user-space memory, which will be filled with the list of extended attributes associated with `fd`.
* `size`:`size_t`[K] - size of the `list` buffer. If not large enough to hold the list of all extended attributes associated with `fd`, the call fails with `error` set to `ERANGE`.

## Hooks
### do_flistxattr
#### Type
Kprobe + Kretprobe
#### Purpose
Monitor and log calls to `flistxattr`, as well as their return values, for debugging and security purposes.

## Example Use Case
The `flistxattr` system call can be used as part of a larger application to get a list of all of the extended attributes associated with a file before attempting to access any of them. This can be especially useful for preventing potential Time-Of-Check To Time-Of-Use (TOCTOU) race conditions.

## Issues
None.

## Related Events
* `listxattr` - get the list of extended attributes associated with the file given the path

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
