
# get_robust_list

## Intro
get_robust_list - get the list of robust futexes owned by the current task

## Description
The get_robust_list() system call gets the robust futex list owned by the task pointed to by its first argument. In addition, it stores a length of the list into the memory pointed to by the second argument.

The robust futex list is a collection of robust futexes which have the FUTEX_WAITERS flag set. Such futexes are owned by the task, and can be used in conjunction with the FUTEX_WAIT and FUTEX_WAKE system calls to provide synchronization between threads.

Robust futexes also ensure that all threads waiting for a given futex receive all the wake-up calls belonging to the futex, even if the owner of the futex dies (e.g. due to a kernel panic).

## Arguments
* `pid`:`int`[U] - define the task structure for the process for which the robust list is to be retrieved.
* `head_ptr`:`struct robust_list_head**`[U] - location of the head of the returned list.
* `len_ptr`:`size_t*`[U] - location of a size_t containing the length of the returned list, in bytes.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### SyS_get_robust_list
#### Type
Kprobes + Tracepoints
#### Purpose
To monitor the usage of the get_robust_list system call.

## Example Use Case
The get_robust_list system call can be used to synchronizing events between threads in a multithreaded application.

## Issues
This system call is not available on all Linux system and is not available on some architectures.

## Related Events
FUTEX_WAIT, FUTEX_WAKE, robust_list_del, set_robust_list

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
