
# inotify_init1

## Intro
inotify_init1 - create and initialize an inotify instance

## Description
`inotify_init1` is a system call that is used to create and initialize an inotify instance. It has one parameter, flags, which is used to pass flags for modifying the behavior of the inotify instance. If the flags are 0, then the instances is initialized with the default behavior.

The inotify API provides a mechanism for monitoring file system events. Inotify supports watching a single file, a directory tree, or recursively all subdirectories.

There are some drawbacks to using inotify API. For example, if an application is monitoring a lot of files or directories, then it may require a large amount of memory and kernel resources, as well as negatively impact the performance. Additionally, if too many watches are set up, the kernel may run out of inotify resources and fail the system call.

## Arguments
* `flags`:`int`[K] - flags that are used to modify the behavior of the inotify instance.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.

## Hooks
### inotify_init1
#### Type
Kprobe
#### Purpose
To monitor when inotify_init1 is called and for what flags values.

## Example Use Case
Inotify API can be used to monitor file system events. For example, an application can detect when a file is modified, renamed, or deleted.

## Issues
Due to the large memory and kernel resources requirements, large numbers of watches can adversely affect the performance of the system. Additionally, if too many watches are set up, the kernel may run out of inotify resources and fail the system call.

## Related Events
* `inotify_add_watch` - add a file or directory watch to an inotify instance
* `inotify_rm_watch` - remove a file or directory watch from an inotify instance

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
