
# io_setup

## Intro

io_setup - sets up a new asynchronous I/O context

## Description

The io_setup() system call prepares the data structures and initialization for subsequent use of asynchronous I/O operations. It creates a new asyncronous I/O context with the value nr_events being the maximum number of expected events to be queued for this context. ctx_idp is an output parameter that has null at the start and is assigned to the identifier of the AIO context created.

## Arguments

* `nr_events`: `unsigned int` - Maximum number of expected event requests to be queued for this context.
* `ctx_idp`: `io_context_t *`[U] - Address to store the identifier of the created AIO context.

### Available Tags

* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks

### do_io_setup

#### Type
Kprobes 

#### Purpose
Used to identify when a new asynchronous I/O context is being set up

## Example Use Case

The io_setup system call can be used in order to monitor the start of new asynchronous I/O operations.

## Issues

None

## Related Events

io_submit, io_cancel, io_destroy

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
