
# io_uring_register

## Intro
io_uring_register - register an io_uring instance with the kernel

## Description
The io_uring_register() system call is used to register an io_uring instance with the kernel. It sets up various parameters such as io_uring buffers, the io_uring timeout, and the io_uring polled queue depths. It also attaches an io_uring instance to an existing file descriptor.

The call allows for registering files, events, memory ranges and other data in an io_uring instance. The io_uring can then be used for operations such as application controlled buffering and queuing, as well as notifying when data is available. 

This system call is convenient when dealing with a range of I/O operations, as it only needs to be called once. 

## Arguments
* `fd`:`unsigned int` - a file descriptor for the io_uring instance.
* `opcode`:`unsigned int` - the type of registration to perform with the kernel.
* `arg`:`void*` - pointer to an array of structures that describe the data to register.
* `nr_args`:`unsigned int` - the number of structures in said array.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### io_uring_register()
#### Type
Kprobes
#### Purpose
Observe behavior of I/O threads undergoing registration 

## Example Use Case
The io_uring_register system call is useful for monitoring the activity around I/O complex operations such as file access and network communication. It can be used to identify latency issues, detect anomalous behavior, and catch system issues.

## Issues
The kernel documentation warns that while most of the features of the io_uring_register system call are stable, some internal details (as of 5.3) may still be in flux and may change in future releases.

## Related Events
* [io_uring_submit](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/io_uring_submit.2.html)
* [io_uring_enter](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/io_uring_enter.2.html)
* [io_uring_cq_advance](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/io_uring_cq_advance.2.html)

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
