
# io_uring_setup

## Intro
io_uring_setup - Setup/initialize an io_uring instance.

## Description
The io_uring_setup() syscall sets up the io_uring instance associated with the file descriptor returned by the io_uring_get_fd() syscall. It returns -1 on error, or 0 on success. The io_uring_setup() syscall is used to configure various options on the io_uring instance, such as the sq_ring_size (the size of the submission queue ring in number of elements), cq_ring_size (the size of the completion queue ring in number of elements), flags (various IORING_SETUP_* flags, see below for a list), and other parameters.

The io_uring_setup() syscall is used for initializing and configuring the io_uring instance. The caller should fill in the io_uring_params structure pointed to by the p argument, with the desired parameter values prior to calling io_uring_setup().

## Arguments
* `entries`:`unsigned int`[K] - Number of sq and cq entries, must be a power of 2, and size must be >= IORING_MIN_ENTRIES and <= IORING_MAX_ENTRIES.
This argument is required.
* `p`:`struct io_uring_params*`[K] - Points to struct io_uring_params containing various options. Optional unless the IORING_SETUP_PARAM_* flags are set.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### system_call_after_io_uring_setup
#### Type
Kprobe + Kretprobe
#### Purpose
To trace the return value of the io_uring_setup syscall.

## Example Use Case
The io_uring_setup syscall can be used to collect latency data for a particular request. By hooking the io_uring_setup syscall and instrumenting the request with a tracepoint, one can measure the time elapsed between a request being submitted and the completion being returned by the io_uring.

## Issues
N/A

## Related Events
* io_uring_get_fd - get a file descriptor from an io_uring instance.
* io_uring_enter - submit IO requests to an io_uring instance.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
