
# ioprio_get

## Intro
ioprio_get - get the I/O priority of a process, process group, or user

## Description
This system call returns the I/O priority of a process, process group, or user. It takes two parameters, which and who, which specify the entity for which the I/O priority is queried. The which parameter can be set to IOPRIO_WHO_PROCESS to query a process identified by the ID passed in the who parameter, IOPRIO_WHO_PGRP to query all processes in the process group specified by the who parameter, or IOPRIO_WHO_USER to query for all processes belonging to the user specified by the who parameter. The return value contains both the I/O priority class and the I/O priority value.

The I/O priorities are used to order operations from I/O-bound processes so that I/O load on a system is distributed in an equitable manner.

## Arguments
* `which`:`int` - Specifies the entity for which the I/O priority is queried.
* `who`:`int` - Specifies the process, process group, or user ID to query.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### sys_ioprio_get
#### Type
Kprobe + Kretprobe.
#### Purpose
To measure the I/O priority of a process, process group, or user.

### ioprio_get
#### Type 
Kprobe.
#### Purpose
To record the process ID of all processes passed to the I/O priority getter.

## Example Use Case
The ioprio_get syscall can be used to measure the efficiency of I/O load balancing in real-world workloads in order to optimize system performance.

## Issues
No known issues.

## Related Events
* ioprio_set - set the I/O priority of a process, process group, or user

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
