
# listxattr

## Intro
listxattr - retrieves the list of extended attributes associated with a file.

## Description
listxattr retrieves the list of extended attributes associated with file referenced by path and stores it in list. The argument size specifies the size of the buffer pointed to by list and may be 0 for when only the size of the attribute list is needed.

The returned attributes are in the form of a list of null-terminated attribute names. No attribute values are retrieved by this call. Attributes can have sizes up to 128 bytes (XATTR_SIZE_MAX).

listxattr can be used to query the list of supported xattrs if the maximum size of an xattr is not known.

## Arguments
* `path`:`const char*` - A pathname of item for which to list extended attributes.
* `list`:`char*` - A list of the extended attributes associated with the file.
* `size`:`size_t` - Max buffer size of the buf argument.

## Hooks
### fcntl
#### Type
Tracepoint
#### Purpose
To observe sys calls of applications and kernel activity.

### do_listxattr
#### Type
Kprobe
#### Purpose
To profile the listxattr syscall.

## Example Use Case
listxattr can be used to list or inspect the extended attributes of a file or directory.  For example, on a filesystem with POSIX Access Control Lists enabled, listxattr can be used to determine if a user has the correct permissions for a file or directory.

## Issues
listxattr does not traverse mounted filesystems, so it will not list an extended attribute located on a mounted filesystem.

## Related Events
getxattr, removexattr, setxattr

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
