
# listen

## Intro
listen - listen for incoming connection requests from the network.

## Description
The _listen_ syscall determines the conditions for incoming connection requests from the network. Under normal circumstances, a [socket](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/socket.2.html) created using the _socket_ syscall is used for this purpose. The _listen_ syscall informs the kernel that the socket is to be used as a listening socket, and it is used to accept incoming connection requests.

The _listen_ syscall is used to mark a socket as being ready to accept incoming connection requests. There are no edge-cases, drawbacks or advantages of using this syscall, as it is simply a necessary step in the process of setting up a server.

## Arguments
* `sockfd`:`int`[K] - This is the file descriptor for the socket. It must refer to a socket that has been created with the _socket_ syscall and not yet bound to a local address.
* `backlog`:`int`[K] - This is the maximum size of the queue of pending connections. This is the number of connections that can be waiting while the process is handling a particular connection.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.

## Hooks
### sys_listen
#### Type
Kprobe
#### Purpose 
To measure the time it takes for the listen syscall to complete and gather information about the various syscall arguments.

## Example Use Case
The _listen_ syscall can be used to set up a server that will accept incoming connection requests from the network. A common use case would be a web server that listens for incoming requests from web browsers. 

## Issues
There are no known issues with the _listen_ syscall.

## Related Events
The _socket_ syscall is the syscall used to create a socket and is related to the _listen_ syscall. The _accept_ syscall is used to actually accept incoming connections after _listen_ has been used.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
