
# lremovexattr

## Intro
lremovexattr - remove an extended attribute from a file or directory.

## Description
The lremovexattr() system call removes the extended attribute specified by `name` from the file specified by `path`. Extended attributes are metadata associated with a file or directory, which may include things such as access control lists, security labels, and file system capabilities. If the `path` argument refers to a symbolic link, the attributes of the symbolic link itself are modified, rather than the attributes of the file or directory referenced by the symbolic link.

## Arguments
* `path` : `const char*` [K] - Path to the file or directory.
* `name` : `const char*` [K] - Name of the attribute to be removed.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### sys_removexattr
#### Type
kprobe + kretprobe
#### Purpose
To detect calls and returns of the lremovexattr() syscall.

## Example Use Case
An application might use lremovexattr() to remove extended attributes such as an ACL from a file or directory.

## Issues
The lremovexattr() system call is not supported on many systems.

## Related Events
* lgetxattr
* llistxattr
* lsetxattr

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
