
# lsetxattr

## Intro
lsetxattr - sets the value of a extended attribute in the filesystem

## Description
The lsetxattr() system call sets the value of an extended attribute associated 
with a file or directory referenced by path. The attributes are interpreted 
according to the namespace indicated by the prefix argument. The value 
parameter is a byte array of size size that will be associated with the 
attribute identified by the pair of arguments (path, name).

The flags argument is currently undefined on Linux systems, and should be 
specified as 0.

## Arguments
* `path`:`const char*`[K] - A pointer to a string indicating the path of the file or directory.
* `name`:`const char*`[K] - A pointer to a string with the name of the extended attribute to set.
* `value`:`const void*`[K] - A pointer to a buffer with the value for the extended attribute.
* `size`:`size_t`[K] - The size of the buffer.
* `flags`:`int`[K] - A value that is currently undefined on Linux and should be specified as 0.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.

## Hooks
### lsetxattr
#### Type
Kprobe
#### Purpose
To monitor the activity of lsetxattr syscalls.

## Example Use Case
Real-time monitoring of lsetxattr syscalls being called to provide insights into 
the access and modification of extended file attributes on a system.

## Issues
None

## Related Events
lgetxattr, fsetxattr, fgetxattr, listxattr, removexattr.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
