
# old_select

## Intro
old_select - Used to monitor multiple file descriptors for a synchronous event.

## Description
old_select is used to monitor multiple file descriptors for a synchronous event. This can be useful for waiting for data on a network connection or for handling multiple file descriptors at the same time. old_select will block until one of the file descriptors is ready or a timeout is reached. It has the same function as the newer select() system call, but with a slightly different interface.

One of the main drawbacks of the old_select system call is that it is vulnerable to the time-of-check-time-of-use (TOCTOU) race condition. This is because old_select doesn't have the ability to atomically check the file descriptors and set the timeout. This can lead to a process missing out on data if the data has already been read before the timeout is set.

## Arguments
* `nfds`:`int` - The number of file descriptors to be monitored.
* `readfds`:`fd_set*`[K] - Pointer to a set of file descriptor sets that will be checked for readability.
* `writefds`:`fd_set*`[K] - Pointer to a set of file descriptor sets that will be checked for writability.
* `exceptfds`:`fd_set*`[K] - Pointer to a set of file descriptor sets that will be checked for out of band data.
* `timeout`:`struct timeval*`[K] - Timeout value, as a `struct timeval`. If `nullptr` is passed, the call is blocking.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.

## Hooks
### old_select
#### Type
Kprobe.
#### Purpose
To monitor the different conditions of the fd sets that are passed in the selector call.

## Example Use Case
old_select is useful for monitoring multiple file descriptors in a synchronous setting. For example, an application might use it to monitor a network connection for incoming data and multiple local file descriptors for requests from other processes.

## Issues
The main issue with the old_select system call is that it is vulnerable to time-of-check-time-of-use (TOCTOU) race conditions. This means that it is possible for requests to be missed as the condition might already have changed before the timeout is set.

## Related Events
* new_select - The newer version of the select system call, which is not vulnerable to TOCTOU race conditions. 
* poll - Function to monitor set of file descriptors for activity. 
* epoll - Similar to the poll system call, but with better integration with the I/O event loop.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
