
# oldolduname

## Intro
oldolduname - gets the legacy version of the system name

## Description
The **oldolduname** syscall obtains the system's legacy version of the name of the operating system running on the system. This name is a string that can contain a maximum of 8 characters and is displayed like `GECOS` (where the `OS/32` operating system got its name). This syscall, which is deprecated, should not be used in any production code and its use is discouraged. 

## Arguments
* `name`:`struct oldold_utsname*`[U] - pointer to a buffer of type `struct oldold_utsname` which will be populated with the system name. 

### Available Tags
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)

## Hooks
### <oldolduname>
#### Type
Kprobe.
#### Purpose
Hooking this syscall allows users to trace system information, such as getting the specific operating system name, when a process calls it.

## Example Use Case
The **oldolduname** syscall can be used to figure out what legacy operating system the system is running on. It is particularly useful for debuggers and software that needs to identify what system they are running on. 

## Issues
This syscall is deprecated, so its use is discouraged.

## Related Events
**uname** - gets the system name and version information.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
