
# Read

## Intro

read - Read from a file descriptor

## Description

The `read` syscall is used to read from an open file descriptor. It takes as input three arguments: `fd`, `buf`, and `count`, and returns a result in the form of the number of bytes read. 

The `fd` argument is an integer that represents a file descriptor, which can be retrieved using the `open` syscall. The `buf` argument is a pointer to the buffer used to store the read bytes, which should have size at least `count`. The `count` argument represents the maximum number of bytes to be read. 

The `read` syscall usually blocks the calling process until the requested data has been read. This can cause issues if the process was expected to remain responsive while waiting for the data. If this is an issue, one possible solution would be to use the `poll` syscall to check when data is available.

## Arguments

* `fd`:`int`[K] - The file descriptor representing the file or device to read from.
* `buf`:`void*`[KU] - Pointer to the buffer to which the data should be written.
* `count`:`size_t`[K] - The maximum number of bytes to be read.

### Available Tags

* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks

### sys_read

#### Type

Kprobe

#### Purpose

To trace syscall execution in order to record useful data like time, arguments, and return codes.

## Example Use Case

The `read` syscall can be used to read data from a file in the system, such as the contents of log files or configuration files. It may be useful for profiling the system by monitoring which files are read and when.

## Issues

None.

## Related Events

*write*, *poll*, *open*

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
