
# semctl

## Intro
semctl - a command used to perform operations on System V semaphore sets. 

## Description
The semctl command is used to perform operations on System V semaphore sets. It has four arguments, a semaphore set identifier, a semaphore number, a command and an optional additional argument. The purpose of this command is to set and retrieve the control information associated with a semaphore set and to set the operational parameters associated with a semaphore. The semctl command can be used to stat, set, mark and get information related to a semaphore set. Some of the drawbacks of using this command is that it can potentially set a semaphore set to a state which can be used in a deadlock situation, or cause race conditions if not handled correctly.

## Arguments
* `semid`:`int`[K] - A semaphore set identifier returned by semget().
* `semnum`:`int`[K] - The number of the semaphore in the set to be affected by cmd.
* `cmd`:`int`[K] - Semaphore control command.
* `arg`:`unsigned long`[K+U+OPT] - Optional structure pointer or value returned from or passed to the kernel.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### sys_semctl
Type: kprobe + kretprobe.
Purpose: To trace the execution of the sys_semctl system call. 

## Example Use Case
An example use case for this event is a system administrator using the semctl command to monitor the semaphore set for errors or for debugging purposes.

## Issues
No issues are currently known for this event.

## Related Events
* semget - get a semaphore set identifier
* semop - perform semaphore operations

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
