
# set_thread_area

## Intro
set_thread_area - Sets the area in which a thread's registers are saved

## Description
The set_thread_area() system call sets the thread-local storage (TLS) area for 
the calling thread via the ldt_entry structure passed in the u_info argument. 
The TLS area stores the segment registers (fs and gs). This area is found on 
the user stack of the thread and is initialized after a thread is created. 
The size of the area is implementation-defined, but at least 28 bytes of 
space must be provided.

Using this system call, the user can specify which segment descriptor should 
be used for fs/gs. This is mostly useful for thread libraries. 

## Arguments
* `u_info`:struct user_desc*[KU] - Pointer to a user_desc structure which contains the information about the TLS area that the system call should set.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### do_set_thread_area
#### Type
Kprobe + Kretprobe
#### Purpose 
To track when the set_thread_area syscall is called and to inspect the arguments.

## Example Use Case
The set_thread_area syscall can be used when implementing thread-local storage (TLS) for a thread library and setting the memory area for storing the segment registers.

## Issues
None.

## Related Events
set_tid_address, get_thread_area, clone, rt_sigaction

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
