
# stty

## Intro
stty - sets the parameters associated with the terminal.

## Description
The stty utility sets or reports terminal characteristics (POSIX termios style) for open terminals in the pseudo-terminal family. The terminal characteristics determine how input and output behave on the input and output streams of the terminal. All subsequent reads and writes on the terminal use these characteristics until the characteristics are re-set with stty.

The POSIX terminal interface is derived from the Unix system and provides more comprehensive control of the terminal than the more traditional interface derived from System V and supplied as the ioctl function.

## Arguments
* `command_string`:`string`[K] - A stty command string made of words, separators, and quote marks that contains one or more stty commands to be performed on the terminal output or input.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### Syscall
#### Type
Probe
#### Purpose
To detect calls to the stty syscall.

## Example Use Case
stty can be used to change the baud rate and other aspects of the serial port operation, thus it is a common event used in debugging serial port issues.

## Issues
N/A

## Related Events
* tcgets
* tcsetattr

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
