
# timerfd_create

## Intro
timerfd_create - creates a file descriptor for use with the timerfd routines.

## Description
The timerfd_create() system call creates a new timer object and returns a file descriptor that refers to it. The clockid argument specifies the clock that is used to mark the progress of the timer. The flags argument specifies optional creation flags; currently only TFD_CLOEXEC is supported.

Once created, the file descriptor can be used to wait for the expiration of the timer using read(), select(), or poll().

## Arguments
* `clockid`:`int` - specifies the clock that is used to mark the progress of the timer.
* `flags`:`int`[OPT] - specifies optional creation flags; currently only TFD_CLOEXEC is supported.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### sys_timerfd_create
#### Type
KProbe
#### Purpose
To hook the kernel entry point for the timerfd_create system call.

## Example Use Case
A process that needs to track time at the system level could use this event to create a file descriptor for a timer and use that to track time in the process.

## Issues
No known issues.

## Related Events
timerfd_settime, timerfd_gettime

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
