
# timerfd_settime

## Intro
timerfd_settime - set the expiration and interval of an installed timer

## Description
The timerfd_settime() system call arms (starts) or disarms (stops) the timer
referred to by the file descriptor `fd`. It does this by setting the timer's
expiration and interval according to the values specified in the
`struct itimerspec` pointed to by the `new_value` argument. If the `old_value`
argument is non-NULL, then the previous `struct itimerspec` is returned in this
location. This syscall also allows the user to specify the `TFD_TIMER_ABSTIME`
descriptor to indicate that `new_value->it_value` is evaluated relative to the
CLOCK_REALTIME clock.

## Arguments
* `fd`: `int` - file descriptor referring to the timer instance.
* `flags`: `int` - flags specifying the behavior of the timer. Flags: `TFD_TIMER_ABSTIME`
* `new_value`: `const struct itimerspec*` [K] - pointer to the new timer value.
* `old_value`: `struct itimerspec*` [K] - pointer to the previous timer value

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.

## Hooks
### `sys_timerfd_settime`
#### Type
kprobe
#### Purpose
To monitor the duration of timerfd_settime system calls.

## Example Use Case
This event can be used for monitoring a timer. For example, it can be used to record the time at which an application sets a timer.

## Issues
None known.

## Related Events
* `timerfd_gettime` - read the timer expiration and interval

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
