
# timerfd_settime32

## Intro
timerfd_settime32 - sets or reads the expiration and interval settings of a timer created by `timerfd_create3`

## Description
This syscall is used to set or read the expiration and interval settings of a timer created by `timerfd_create3`, a timer that is awoken when a time elapses until the timer is reset with a new expiration time. This syscall is called with two pointers to struct `old_itimerspec32` objects, `utmr` and `otmr`, which store the values of the timer both before and after it being set. A `ufd` and `flags` are also passed to the function, `ufd` corresponding to the file descriptor associated to the timer, and `flags`, an options field.

One advantage of using this syscall is that it provides an easy (and fast) way of setting and managing a timer. It is particularly handy when used with a `CLOCK_MONOTONIC` clock, since it will neither gain nor lose time. On top of that, timers set with `timerfd_settime` will never expire earlier than its intended time, which can be quite useful when working with time-sensitive tasks.

One drawback is that if Linux kernel is modified with a newer version of it, applications need to be recompiled against newer version in order for `timerfd_settime32` to be used properly.

## Arguments
* `ufd`: `int` - The file descriptor associated with the timer.
* `flags`: `int` - Option flags to indicate whether the new settings are affected at expiration or after current expiration.
* `utmr`: `struct old_itimerspec32*` - Pointer to a `struct old_itimerspec32` object defining the new timer settings.
* `otmr`: `struct old_itimerspec32*`[OPT] - Pointer to a `struct old_itimerspec32` object where the previous settings of the timer are stored.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### timerfd_settime32
#### Type
kprobe + nop
#### Purpose
To trace the syscall timerfd_settime32 with the intention of monitoring when the timer is set and gather information about the duration of time for which the user is expecting the timer to expire.

## Example Use Case
One example use case for this syscall is when we need to keep track of time needed for certain tasks. This can be particularly useful when we are doing performance analysis, as we can use this to check which operations are taking more time.

For example, we can measure how much time it takes to perform a certain task by setting a timer with this funciton and checking how much time it takes for the timer to expire.

## Issues
One common issue with using timerfd_settime32 is that we are relying on the accuracy of the system timer. In a system with an unstable clock, maybe due to scheduling, this could cause our timer to expire earlier or later than it is supposed to.

## Related Events
* `timerfd_create3`: Used to create the timer associated with `timerfd_settime32`.
* `epoll_wait`: Used to wait for timers to expire. 
* `timer_gettime`: Used to access or alter the timer's expiration settings.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
