
# timerfd_gettime

## Intro
timerfd_gettime() - get the expiration(s) of a timer created with timerfd.

## Description
The timerfd_gettime() system call retrieves the current value of a timer created by the timerfd_create() system call. It stores the expiration(s) in the given structure pointed to by the `curr_value` argument. The `fd` argument should be a file descriptor that refers to the timer.

This event might be useful to retrieve the expiration values of a given timer in order to get insight into the state of the timer at any given time. One potential edge-case is that the given `fd` argument does not refer to a timer, in which case an error will be returned.

## Arguments
* `fd`:`int`[K] - file descriptor crated by the timerfd_create() system call.
* `curr_value`:`struct itimerspec*`[U] - pointer to the struct itimerspec which will hold the current and/or next expiration(s) of the timer.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)

## Hooks
### timer_refresh()
#### Type
Function probe.

#### Purpose
The timer_refresh() is hooked to check that the expiry times are up to date and to act accordingly, like set the next expiry time.

### timer_del()
#### Type
Kretprobes - return probes.

#### Purpose
The timer_del() is hooked to detect when a timer has been deleted and to free the related data.

## Example Use Case
The timerfd_gettime() system call can be used to retrieve the expiration values of a timer in order to, for example, display a progress indicator or monitor how close a timer is to expiring.

## Issues
Currently, no issues with this event have been identified.

## Related Events
timerfd_create() - create a timer, timerfd_settime() - set expiration values for a timer, timerfd_gettime() - get the expiration(s) of a timer.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
