
# timerfd_gettime32

## Intro
timerfd_gettime32 -  Return the current value of the timer referenced by the file descriptor ufd.

## Description
The timerfd_gettime32() system call returns the current value of the timer referenced by the file descriptor ufd into the buffer pointed to by the otmr argument. It is intended to replace the use of the obsolete timer_gettime(2) system call.

The timerfd_gettime32() system call supports both absolute (based on calendar time) and relative (based on process start time) timers and is unaffected by changes in the system time (see adjtime(2)).

The buffer otmr argument used in timerfd_gettime32 is used to return an old-style itimerspec structure, that is:

```c
struct old_itimerspec32 {
  struct old_timespec32 it_interval;  /* Timer period */
  struct old_timespec32 it_value;     /* Timer expiration */
};
```

Advantages of using timerfd_gettime32() is that it provides a mechanism for atomically retrieving the timer's current value, as well as providing relative/absolute timers and being unaffected by changes in system time.

## Arguments
* `ufd`:`int` - A file descriptor that refers to a timer created via timerfd_create(2).
* `otmr`:`struct old_itimerspec32*` - Pointer to a struct old_itimerspec32 object which will be used to return the timer's current value.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)

## Hooks
### sys_timerfd_gettime32
#### Type
probes
#### Purpose
To measure the execution time of the timerfd_gettime32 system call.

## Example Use Case
The timerfd_gettime32 system call might be used in an application to retrieve the current value of a timer that was created via the timerfd_create(2) system call for use with a signal handler.

## Issues
There is currently no known issue associated with the timerfd_gettime32 system call.

## Related Events
* timerfd_create(2)
* timerfd_settime32(2)

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
