
# epoll_create1

## Intro
epoll_create1 - create a new instance of an epoll set for monitoring file descriptors

## Description
The epoll_create1() system call performs the same task as epoll_create(), but it allows for additional features that are beneficial for certain applications. Flags specifies the behavior of the system call and may be used to specify a maximum number of descriptors that the target epoll instance will be able to contain (flags is a bitmask, and only one of the flags in the mask should be used). This syscall is useful in applications that depend on high performance and scalability, such as network servers.

## Arguments
* `flags`:`int`[OPT] - bits that specify the behavior of the system call. The flags may be a bitmask specifying the behavior of the system call. The only flag that should be used is EPOLL_CLOEXEC, which creates the epoll instance with the close-on-exec flag.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### epoll_create1
#### Type
Tracepoint
#### Purpose
To monitor the execution of the epoll_create1 system call.

## Example Use Case
The epoll_create1 system call can be used to create a new instance of an epoll set for monitoring a large number of file descriptors. This system call is particularly useful for servers that constantly need to monitor a large number of file descriptors.

## Issues
None.

## Related Events
* epoll_ctl - used to control an instance of an epoll set
* epoll_wait - used to wait for events from an instance of an epoll set

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
