
# mount_setattr

## Intro
mount_setattr - set per-mount attributes on a mount

## Description
The system call mount_setattr() allows an application to set mount-level attributes on the specified mount. Currently, only two flags are defined: `MOUNT_ATTR_NOEXEC`, which will prevent mount from executing any code, and `MOUNT_ATTR_NOSUID`, which will prevent mount from allowing setuid and setgid execution for any files.

The `dfd` and `path` parameters specify a mount to modify using a file descriptor or file path respectively. The `flags` parameter is an unsigned int describing the flags to set (or reset) on the mount. Lastly, the `uattr` parameter is either NULL or points to a struct mount_attr which holds the mount-level attributes to set.

## Arguments
* `dfd`:`int`[K] - The mount's file descriptor. 
* `path`:`char*`[K] - The mount’s path.
* `flags`:`unsigned int`[K] - An unsigned int describing the flags to set (or reset) on the mount.
* `uattr`:`struct mount_attr*`[U, TOCTOU, OPT] - If this argument is not NULL, and it is pointing to a valid struct mount_attr, then it will set the mount-level attributes, otherwise it will reset the mount-level attributes.  
* `usize`:`size_t`[K, OPT] - The size of the `uattr` buffer.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### sys_mount
#### Type
Kprobe.
#### Purpose
To monitor mount_setattr syscall activity.

## Example Use Case
The mount_setattr system call can be used to set mount-level attributes, such as `MOUNT_ATTR_NOEXEC` to prevent execution of code, or `MOUNT_ATTR_NOSUID` to prevent setuid and setgid execution of any files located on the mount.

## Issues
The `uattr` parameter is vulnerable to time of check/time of use (TOCTOU) race conditions since the credentials of the calling process are checked when the call is made, but not when the mount_setattr system call is executed.

## Related Events
The mount_isattr() system call can be used to fetch the mount-level attributes of a mount.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
