
# oldfstat

## Intro
oldfstat - use this function to get information about an open file

## Description
The oldfstat function is used to get information about an open file. This function is similar to fstat() which is used to get information about a file that is referred to by a file descriptor. oldfstat() is available on all UNIX-like systems for backwards compatibility and features a similar set of information about the open file. The main difference is that the user does not need to provide the file descriptor, instead of this it takes a file handle. If a process has permission to the file then the information will be used.

## Arguments
* `fildes`:`int`[K-U] - an open file descriptor of the object to be stat'ed.
* `buf`:`stat*`[K] - a pointer to a stat structure in which information is stored.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space. 
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it). 
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value).

## Hooks
### `sys_oldfstat`
#### Type
Kprobes
#### Purpose
To track function calls and extract data from arguments to understand the behavior of a program.

## Example Use Case
This event can be used to monitor and collect information over time about the files used by a process. It can also be used to audit system programs' behaviors when we are suspicious about their access to the file.

## Issues
The oldfstat() does not support file descriptors greater than (USHRT_MAX + 1) and therefore, cannot be reliable for such system calls.

## Related Events
* `fstat` - Similarly used to get information about a file, but takes a file descriptor as an argument. 
* `lstat` - Used to get information about a file from a symbolic link path.
* `fstatat` - Used to get information about a file and takes a directory file descriptor as an argument.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
