
# semtimedop

## Intro
semtimedop - acquire a semaphore in a timed manner

## Description
The `semtimedop()` system call is used to acquire a semaphore in an asynchronous
manner with a timeout. It is designed to acquire one or multiple semaphores
atomically. If the specified `timeout` is reached, the call will fail with an
`EAGAIN` error. The return value of the call will contain information about the
number of semaphores actually acquired.

## Arguments
* `semid`:`int` - ID of the semaphore set.
* `sops`:`struct sembuf*` - Pointer to an array of `sembuf` structs. Each struct
contains the index of the semaphore inside the semaphore array and condition of
the operation (unlock/lock).
* `nsops`:`size_t` - Size of the array of `sembuf` structs.
* `timeout`:`const struct timespec*`[K, OPT] - Pointer to a timespec struct
describing the time duration of the wait.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### sys_semtimedop
#### Type
Kprobe
#### Purpose
To monitor the execution of `semtimedop()` and modify behavior when needed.

## Example Use Case
`semtimedop()` is especially useful when implementing synchronization mechanisms
into a system. These synchronization mechanisms could be related to
multi-threaded application, and the `semtimedop()` could be used to allow access 
to shared resources in a controlled manner.

## Issues
At the time of writing, the `timeout` argument does not work as expected on all 
supported architectures.

## Related Events
* semop()
* semtimedop_time64()

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
