
# setdomainname

## Intro
setdomainname - sets the system's hostname to the given name 

## Description
The setdomainname() system call is used to set the domain name of the system. The name is set to the value pointed to by the argument name, which is subject to the size restrictions on the hostname parameter as specified by length.

The setdomainname() syscall is generally used in conjunction with the sethostname() syscall, which sets the hostname parameter. 

This system call is useful for setting the full domain name of a system as part of a larger system or network. It is also useful for setting up servers and switches on a local network.

## Arguments
* `name`: `const char*`[K] - a pointer to a character string specifying the domain name of the system. 
* `len`: `size_t`[K] - length of the supplied name, in bytes.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.

## Hooks
### sys_setdomainname
#### Type
KProbes
#### Purpose
To log every setdomainname call and its arguments.

## Example Use Case
You are setting up a local network with several servers and computers in order to host an application. You can use the sethostname and setdomainname calls to quickly configure the system to have the unique domain name and host name that is required for this application.

## Issues
None known.

## Related Events
* sethostname - sets the system's hostname. 
* uname - gets system information, including domainname and hostname.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
