
# setgid16

## Intro
setgid16 - change the effective of the calling process and the saved set-group-ID

## Description
The setgid16() system call is used to set the user's real group ID, effective group ID, and the saved set-group-ID of the calling process. This can be used to change the privileges of a process to that of a new group. The setgid16() call is one of the set-ID system calls, meaning that the real user ID and effective user ID of the calling process will also be set. This call is made obsolete by the setgid() call.

## Arguments
* `gid`:`old_gid_t`[KU] - represents a group ID.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it).

## Hooks
### sys_setgid16
#### Type
Kprobes
#### Purpose
To capture calls to the setgid16 system call.

## Example Use Case
The setgid16 system call could be used to temporarily switch the effective group ID of a process from a privileged group to that of an unprivileged single-user group in order to perform a task that requires elevated privileges. After the task is complete, the process can be switched back to its original group ID.

## Issues
The setgid16 system call is obsolete and should not be used in modern Linux systems. It should be replaced with setgid.

## Related Events
* setgid
* getgid
* setegid
* getegid

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
