
# sigreturn

## Intro
sigreturn - restore process state after receiving a signal

## Description
The `sigreturn()` system call restores the calling process' pre-signal state, and is usually used when the user wants to implement their own signal handlers. This can be done by setting the `SA_SIGINFO` flag when registering the signal handler, and then calling `sigreturn()` in order to restore the process state. One of the main advantages of using `sigreturn()` is that it is significantly faster than `sigaction()`.

However, there are some drawbacks to using this system call. Most notably, any change that is made to the process state after calling `sigreturn()`, before the process is switched from the kernel to user space again, will be lost. This includes changes to any data structures, resources, or file descriptors, as well as any additional system calls that might be made.

## Arguments
This system call takes no arguments.

## Hooks
### do_signal
#### Type
kprobes
#### Purpose
This function is hooked in order to catch the `sigreturn()` system call and perform any necessary cleanup tasks.

## Example Use Case
One use case for `sigreturn()` might be a signal handler that can be used to safely shut down a process. Since `sigreturn()` restores the process's state to its state before the signal, it can be used in order to safely shut down the process without causing any errors or data inconsistencies.

## Issues
There are no known issues with the `sigreturn()` system call.

## Related Events
* `sigaction()` - register a signal handler
* `sigprocmask()` - manipulate a process's signal mask

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
