
# timer_getoverrun

## Intro
timer_getoverrun - returns an overrun count

## Description
The timer_getoverrun function returns the overrun count for a specified timer. The overrun count is equal to the number of times the expiration callback was invoked since the last time the timer expired.

The timer_getoverrun function works by reading the timer's state and therefore the overrun count may be stale by the time it is returned. If the timer is in the process of expiring, the overrun count may not agree with the actual overrun count since the expiration callback started running.

## Arguments

* `timer_id`   : `timer_t` - identifier of the timer whose overrun count should be returned.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### sys_timer_getoverrun
#### Type
KProbes
#### Purpose
Used to log the timer identifier and the overrun count.

## Example Use Case
This event can be used to track the behavior of a timer and its overrun count over time.

## Issues
None.

## Related Events
* [timer_settime](https://linux.die.net/man/2/timer_settime) - used to set up the timer which will be tracked with timer_getoverrun.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
