
# tkill

## Intro
tkill - send a signal to a specified process or thread

## Description
The tkill() system call sends the signal `sig` to the thread `tid`. The thread `tid` has to be a thread of the calling process. The __tkill()__ system call is a more specific alternative to kill(2).

When the signal is delivered, it is as if __signal()__ had been called with the signal number `sig` and the argument __siginfo_t*__ set to NULL from within the thread `tid`. Note that software support for thread-directed signals has been removed from the kernel.

The `tkill()` system call differs from __tkill()__ in that `tkill()` behaves as `kill()` does, in that it does not set errno if the process or process group does not exist. Note that regardless of the signal number sent, no signals shall be generated when sending a signal to a nonexistent process or process group.

## Arguments
* `tid`:`int`[K] - The thread ID of the thread to be signaled.
* `sig`:`int`[K] - The signal number passed to the thread.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.

## Hooks
### tkill
#### Type
Kprobes 
#### Purpose
To gather information on system calls called by the thread.

## Example Use Case
tkill() is most commonly used to kill threads that are stuck or have gone into an unexpected state.

## Issues
The tkill() system call is not always successful in delivering the signal, so it is necessary to use a signal-safe system call such as __rt_sigqueueinfo()__ to ensure that the signal is delivered.

## Related Events
* __signal()__
* __kill()__
* __tkill()__

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
