
# get_thread_area

## Intro
get_thread_area - Retrieves the thread-local storage (TLS) area for the current process

## Description
The get_thread_area() system call retrieves the thread-local storage (TLS) area for the current process. It is used during the initialization of a thread to find the address of the thread's TLS segment. The TLS area consists of one or more segments, each of which contains zero or more thread-specific copies of TLS variables, with each variable in turn having a specific data type. This system call is only available in the x86 architecture.

This call is typically used with the user_desc structure, which is used by the set_thread_area() system call to set a thread's TLS.

## Arguments
* `u_info`:`struct user_desc*`[U] - Pointer to a user_desc structure that will contain the thread's TLS information.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### sys_get_thread_area
#### Type
Kprobe
#### Purpose
Hooked to check when and how this syscall is used.

## Example Use Case
The get_thread_area() system call is used to retrieve the thread-local storage (TLS) area for the current process. This can be used in conjunction with the set_thread_area() system call to configure the thread's TLS.

## Issues
N/A

## Related Events
* set_thread_area() - Used to set the TLS area for the current thread.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
