
# getppid

## Intro
getppid - return the process ID of the parent of the calling process

## Description
The `getppid()` system call is used to determine the PID of the parent of the calling process. This is an important information for parent-child process relationships, as the PPID value for the parent of the process can be used to separate process hierarchies. The return value is a positive number, or zero if the parent process does not exist. 

There are some edge cases and drawbacks to using `getppid()`. For example, a process can check its parent process ID with `getppid()` but this value is not guaranteed to stay the same over the course of execution. Furthermore, if the parent process has exited, then getppid will return zero, which is not very helpful. 

## Arguments
**No arguments**

## Hooks
### sys_getppid
#### Type
kprobe
#### Purpose
To trace all calls to `getppid()` in the kernel.

## Example Use Case
By generating trace events at each `sys_getppid` occurrence, one can get all of the process IDs in the parent-child process tree and maintain a timeline of process creation and exits.

## Issues
If the parent of a process exits and is replaced with a different process of the same PID, then `getppid` would return the same value, leading to potential confusion.

## Related Events
* `execve` - checks whether the current process is the parent of a given process
* `fork` - creates a new process that is the parent of the calling process

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
