
# getrlimit

## Intro
getrlimit - get resource limits on the process

## Description
getrlimit() returns the current value of a resource limit for the process identified by pid. Resource limits are kernel-imposed limits on the resources that a process can consume. The resource parameter is a resource to be retrieved; a list of known resources is given in the manual page. If a call to setrlimit() has not been made previously, then the returned limits will reflect the operating system's default limit values. 

There are some limitations associated with this syscall. The granularity of the returned data depends on the limits imposed by the underlying operating system. For example, some architectures may not support setting a limit for a resource type. Additionally, the returned resource limit may not exactly match the value that was set, as it is rounded up to the nearest valid limit by the kernel before it is returned. 

## Arguments
* `resource`:`int` - specifies the resource to retrieve information about.
* `rlim`:`struct rlimit*`[K | U] - specifies the location of the buffer that should contain the resource limit. This buffer must be provided by user-space and must have enough space to contain the resource limit that is being requested.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
  
## Hooks
### sys_getrlimit
#### Type
Kprobe
#### Purpose
To monitor the resource limits of the process and gather information about resource consumption.

## Example Use Case
getrlimit() can be used to track how many resources, like memory and file descriptors, a process is consuming and, potentially, help identify process that are growing in a very short amount of time or have too many resources allocated. 

## Issues
The granularity of the resource limits depends on the system and there may not be support for some resource types. 

## Related Events
setrlimit() - set resource limits on the process.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
