
# ioperm

## Intro
ioperm - set/get I/O permissions

## Description
The ioperm system call allows a user to set/get I/O port permissions. It takes a 16-bit starting I/O port, the number of ports to affect, and an enable/disable value (1 or 0). All the I/O ports, from the starting port to the starting port + num - 1, will be set according to the enable/disable value. It affects only the current thread/process.

The ioperm system call is used to allow or disallow certain I/O operations on certain parts of the I/O address space. It is used for situations where low-level I/O operations are required, such as when writing device drivers or device access programs.

## Arguments
* `from`:`unsigned long`[K] - The starting I/O port.
* `num`:`unsigned long`[K] - The number of ports to affect.
* `turn_on`:`int`[K] - Enable/disable value.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### sys_ioperm
#### Type
Kprobes + ftrace
#### Purpose
Hook to trace when ioperm system call is invoked.

## Example Use Case
An example use case of the ioperm system call is writing a device driver. If the device driver needs to access I/O ports and it needs low-level I/O operations, the ioperm system call can be used to enable/disable access to I/O ports as needed.

## Issues
This system call is limited in that it can only be used on the current thread/process. Additionally, it is only available on x86 architectures. This limits its use-case somewhat.

## Related Events
* iopl - manipulate I/O privilege level.
* ioctls (ioctl) - control device.
* perf_event_open - open a performance monitoring event.
* userfaultfd - create a userland fault handler.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
