
# keyctl

## Intro
keyctl - is a system call for manipulating the kernel’s key management facility. 

## Description
keyctl is a function in the Linux kernel through which applications can request to manage the kernel's key management facility. It has several operations for creating, accessing, and destroying keys. Creating and accessing keys are usually done in process-local or session-wide aspects. The call can accept up to five arguments, with `operation` being the first one used to describe what the kernel should do.

The use of this call can be advantageous, since it helps in facilitating secure communication between applications and services, in addition to better access control over system calls. This can also be used to ensure secure storage of sensitive data such as encryption keys.

## Arguments
* `operation`: `int` - type of operation to be carried out. It is specified as one of the KEYCTL_ macros.
* `arg2`: `unsigned long` - argument associated with the specified operation.
* `arg3`: `unsigned long` - argument associated with the specified operation.
* `arg4`: `unsigned long` - argument associated with the specified operation.
* `arg5`: `unsigned long` - argument associated with the specified operation.

### Available Tags
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use).
 
## Hooks
###

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
