
# mmap

## Intro
mmap - map a region of memory in a process address space

## Description
The mmap() system call maps a region of memory in a process address space. It
can be used to share a region of memory between processes, or to map a region of
a file or device into a process's address space. The `flags` parameter is a
bitwise combination of various options that control the mapping of a region of
memory. The `prot` parameter is the protection level of the region. The `fd`
parameter, if set, specifies the file descriptor of a regular file or device
that is mapped into the calling process address space. The `off` parameter
specifies the offset from the start of the file, if file-associated memory is
being mapped.

The `mmap()` system call is useful for allocating a fixed-size region of
memory for use in a larger system. It can be used for applications such as
kernel code, device drivers, shared libraries, or for any other region of
memory that needs to be allocated.

## Arguments
* `addr`:`void*`[K] - a pointer to the memory location where the mapping will begin. If this value is NULL, page-aligned memory will be allocated and used.
* `length`:`size_t`[K] - the size of the mapping in bytes.
* `prot`:`int`[K] - the protection flags for the mapping; a combination of `PROT_READ`, `PROT_WRITE` and `PROT_EXEC`.
* `flags`:`int`[K] - the flags for the mapping; a combination of `MAP_SHARED` or `MAP_PRIVATE`, and other flags to define the access.
* `fd`:`int`[K] - the file descriptor of a regular file or device that is mapped into the calling process address space. If this parameter is -1, no file is mapped. 
* `off`:`off_t`[K] - the offset from the start of the file, if file-associated memory is being mapped.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### do_mmap_pgoff
#### Type
Kprobe
#### Purpose
To monitor mmap system calls from user space.

### sys_mmap
#### Type
Kretprobe
#### Purpose
To monitor the return value of mmap system calls from the kernel.

## Example Use Case
A typical use of the `mmap()` system call is to map a file into memory and then access it directly. This allows applications to read and write the file, without having to use the slow I/O operations, as the data is in memory. This is especially useful for applications that need to read a large file quickly, but don't need to write it.

## Issues
To use `mmap()`, the process must have sufficient memory available to map the file. If not, the `mmap()` call will return a memory allocation error and the file will not be mapped.

## Related Events
* `munmap()` - to unmap previously mapped memory regions.
* `mremap()` - to remap memory regions.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
