
# mq_timedreceive_time32

## Intro
`mq_timedreceive_time32()` - receives the oldest of the highest priority messages stored in the message queue specified by mqdes.

## Description
The `mq_timedreceive_time32()` system call atomically removes the oldest of the highest priority messages from the message queue specified by the `mqdes` argument, places it in the memory pointed to by `u_msg_ptr`, and returns its priority in the integer pointed to by `msg_prio`. The `msg_len` argument specifies the size in bytes of the storage pointed to by `u_msg_ptr`; this space must be greater than or equal to the mq_msgsize attribute of the message queue. The `u_abs_timeout` argument points to a structure that specifies the absolute timeout of the call. 

It can provide synchronization and communication between processes, like avoiding busy waiting and non-sharing of resources between different threads. While there are many advantage to using this system call, one downside of it is that it does not ensure real-time delivery of the message. Also, it is vulnerable to the time of check, time of use (TOCTOU) vulnerability. 

## Arguments
* `mqdes`: `mqd_t`[K] - Descriptor of the message queue.
* `u_msg_ptr`: `char*`[K] - Points to the buffer where the oldest/highest priority message will be stored.
* `msg_len`: `unsigned int`[K] - Length in bytes of the buffer. 
* `u_msg_prio`: `unsigned int*`[K] - Pointer to an integer that stores the priority of the received message.
* `u_abs_timeout`: `struct old_timespec32*`[K] - Specifies the absolute timeout of the call.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.

## Hooks
### mq_timedreceive_time32
#### Type
Kprobe + Kretprobe
#### Purpose
Hook the `mq_timedreceive_time32()` system call to measure performance metrics (e.g. latency) and receive messages as expected. 

## Example Use Case
`mq_timedreceive_time32()` can be used to provide synchronization between different processes and threads. For example, it can be used in a web browser application to receive data from a server that has the same message queue descriptor as the process.

## Issues
* It does not ensure real-time delivery of the messages. 
* It is vulnerable to the time of check, time of use (TOCTOU) vulnerability. 

## Related Events
* `mq_timedsend_time32()` - sends a message with absolute timeout to a message queue. 
* `mq_open()` - used to open or create a message queue.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
