
# msgctl

## Intro
msgctl - manipulate message queue control operations on System V message queues

## Description
The `msgctl` system call is used to manipulate message queue control operations on System V message queues. Depending on the command, it can be used to set or get the attributes associated with a message queue, change ownership of the queue, or remove the queue entirely.

The command argument specifies the requested control action: 
* `IPC_STAT` to fetch the `msqid_ds` structure, which contains various status and control information about the queue itself; 
* `IPC_SET` to set some of the members of the `msqid_ds` structure; 
* `IPC_RMID` to remove the data structure associated with the message queue and destroy the queue.

The `msgctl` system call can suffer from certain time-of-check-to-time-of-use (TOCTOU) vulnerabilitites.

## Arguments
* `msqid`:`int`[K] - the identifier of the message queue to be operated on.
* `cmd`:`int`[K] - the operation to be performed on the message queue.  Supported commands are `IPC_RMID`, `IPC_STAT`, and `IPC_SET`, as defined in <sys/msg.h>.
* `buf`:`struct msqid_ds*`[KU TOCTOU] - the address of a `msqid_ds` structure, which is used depending on the command.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)

## Hooks
### do_msgctl
#### Type
kprobe
#### Purpose
To monitor the arguments and the return value of the `msgctl` system call.

## Example Use Case
The `msgctl` system call can be used to monitor message queues, as well as to detect suspicious activity. For example, it could be used to detect if a queue is constantly being modified or if a malicious process is trying to modify a queue without authorization.

## Issues
The `msgctl` system call is vulnerable to TOCTOU vulnerabilities, as the system call may validate one argument when entering the kernel and a different argument when actually executing the command.

## Related Events
* msgget
* msgsnd
* msgrcv

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
