
# nfsservctl

## Intro 
nfsservctl - Used to query and/or update kernel parameters in the NFS server.

## Description
The nfsservctl() system call is used to query or update kernel parameters in the NFS server. When used to query parameters, it returns the current parameters, including potential upgrade messages. When used to modify parameters, flags can be set which will cause the NFS server to automatically restart itself after the parameters take effect.

The nfsservctl() system call can also be used to start and stop the NFS server. This ability is useful for system administrators who wish to restart the server for maintenance or configuration changes without requiring a system reboot.

## Arguments
* `cmd`:`int`[K] - specifies the type of operation to perform. This is one of the NFSCTL_* constants.
* `arg`:`void *`[K] - a pointer to a buffer to be used to store information related to the nfsservctl() command such as parameters that need to be changed or information about the current status of the NFS server.
* `len`:`sizet`[K] - used to specify the length of the buffer in bytes.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.

## Hooks
### sys_nfsservctl
#### Type
Kprobe
#### Purpose
To monitor NFS server activity - It should be able to identify whether the system is issuing NFS server control commands.

## Example Use Case
In certain scenarios, an administrator may need to make frequent changes to NFS server settings in order to optimize performance. In such cases, the nfsservctl() system call allows them to make such changes without requiring a system reboot or manual intervention.

## Issues
null

## Related Events
* nfsservctl_set_constate

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
