
# process_mrelease

## Intro
process_mrelease - allows releasing memory from mlock()/mlock2().

## Description 
process_mrelease is used to release homogeneous memory locked using mlock() or mlock2(). It accepts two parameters: *pidfd* of type *int*, which is the PID of the process whose memory is to be released, and *flags* of type *unsigned int*, which is used to set flags to determine the behaviour of the syscall. The advantage of using process_mrelease over mlock()/mlock2() is that it offers more fine-grained control; however, a drawback is that it can only be used on homogeneous memory.

## Arguments
* `pidfd`:`int`[K] - A file descriptor referring to the process whose memory is to be released. 
* `flags`:`unsigned int`[K] - Flags that can be used to alter the behaviour of the syscall. The flags must be provided as a bit mask, which can be ORed together.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### do_mrelease
#### Type
Tracepoint probes
#### Purpose
To monitor and trace a successful process mrelease call.

### sys_process_mrelease
#### Type
Kprobe probes
#### Purpose
To monitor and trace the entry and exit of a process mrelease call.

## Example Use Case
A use case for process_mrelease would be for memory locking applications. An application could monitor memory usage changes, and if a certain threshold is met, it could call process_mrelease to release any memory that was locked using mlock()/mlock2().

## Issues
The only issue with process_mrelease is that it can only be used with homogeneous memory. If the memory locked was not homogeneous, the syscall will not succeed.

## Related Events
* mlock() 
* munlock()
* mlock2()

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
