
# quotactl_fd

## Intro
quotactl_fd - set/get filesystem quotas and limits

## Description
The quotactl_fd syscalls allows the retrieval and modification of disk quotas and limits, as well as get and set disk usage information, when given a valid file descriptor. It is used to invoke one of the available commands on the specified filesystem, with specific additional parameters. It is particularly useful for setting and retrieving hard and soft limits for quotas and limits for multiple users simultaneously.

## Arguments
* `fd`:`unsigned int` - an open file descriptor of a filesystem from which to get or set the information, or to which the command will be sent.
* `cmd`:`unsigned int` - one of the available commands that can be used in the syscall, as listed in the manual page.
* `id`:`qid_t` - represents the user/group/project ID to be associated with the specified filesystem.
* `addr`:`void *`[K] - an address pointing to a memory area from which data can be read or to which data can be written, depending on the type of command sent.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.

## Hooks
###  `do_quotactl_fd`
#### Type
KProbe + KRetProbe.
#### Purpose
Hooked to gain visibility into how this system call is used, when it is used, where it is used and what arguments are associated with its usage.

## Example Use Case
This system call can be used for applications that need to set usage quotas and limits for disk usage on a certain file system. 

## Issues
None so far.

## Related Events
* `quotactl` - related system call.

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
