
# sched_get_priority_min

## Intro
sched_get_priority_min - returns the minimum priority value that can be used with the scheduling policy

## Description
This system call is used to get the minimum priority value that can be used when using the scheduling policy mentioned as the parameter. This call will usually return -1 if the policy is invalid, and will return the minimum priority value that can be used with the scheduling policy upon successful completion. 

There are a few drawbacks when using this system call. Firstly, it may be too restrictive in that it is limited to only one scheduling policy, meaning if multiple scheduling policies are used, multiple separate calls are needed. Additionally, the accuracy of the minimum priority value depends on the implementation of the OS, and may not be as precise as desired. 

## Arguments
* `policy`:`int`[K] - a scheduling policy identified by an integer.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.

## Hooks

### sched_get_priority_min
#### Type
Kprobe.
#### Purpose
To inform the user of the minimum priority value that can be used in the given scheduling policy.

## Example Use Case
This system call can be utilized to define the limits on the chosen priorities for various threads in a multithreading application.

## Issues
There can be a margin of error present when considering the minimum priority values, depending on the implementation of the OS. 

## Related Events
sched_get_priority_max, sched_setscheduler, sched_setparam

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
