
# sendto

## Intro
sendto - send a message on a socket

## Description
The sendto() system call is used to send a message to a socket. The message is specified by a pointer to a buffer buf, and is specified to be of a length len. The flags argument specifies the type of message transmission.  
The dest_addr argument is a pointer to a socket address structure, which contains the address of the receiving socket. The addrlen argument specifies the size of this structure.  
If the socket is connection-oriented, the address of the target socket is already specified, and dest_addr should be NULL. If the socket is not connection-oriented, the address of the target socket must be specified and addrlen must be set to its size.

## Arguments
* `sockfd`:`int`[U] - file descriptor for the socket (returned from socket call).
* `buf`:`void*`[U] - pointer to the message buffer to be sent.
* `len`:`size_t`[U] - length of the message to be sent.
* `flags`:`int`[U] - message transmission flags.
* `dest_addr`:`struct sockaddr*`[U] - pointer to a socket address structure containing the target socket address.
* `addrlen`:`int`[U] - size of the socket address structure.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.
* U - Originated from user space (for example, pointer to user space memory used to get it)
* TOCTOU - Vulnerable to TOCTOU (time of check, time of use)
* OPT - Optional argument - might not always be available (passed with null value)

## Hooks
### sys_sendto
#### Type
KProbe
#### Purpose
Tracking the flow of messages sent via sockets.

## Example Use Case
When debugging an application, one could hook sendto system call to monitor the flow of messages being sent from the application.

## Issues
None.

## Related Events
* recvfrom
* sendmsg
* recvmsg

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
