
# setgid

## Intro
setgid - set group identity of the current process

## Description
The `setgid` syscall is used to set the group identity of the current process. This syscall does not affect the supplemental group list (see `getgroups`/`setgroups`). On most implementations, only root is allowed to call this syscall.

The primary advantage of using `setgid` is that it is a very simple, lightweight way to switch the group ID of the current process. However, there are some edge-cases to be aware of. Not all implementations will set the effective GID on all threads, which can lead to inconsistent behavior. Additionally, this syscall does not affect the supplemental groups list, so any groups set through `setgid` will not be applied to any child processes which are created.

## Arguments
* `gid`:`gid_t` - The GID to use as the effective GID of the calling process.

### Available Tags
* K - Originated from kernel-space.

## Hooks
### sys_setgid
#### Type
kprobes + kretprobes
#### Purpose
To monitor the entry and return from setgid calls.

## Example Use Case
This could be used to monitor processes attempting to change their group ID, which may indicate an attack being launched or escalation of privileges.

## Issues
This syscall does not affect the supplemental group list, so any groups set through `setgid` will not be applied to any child processes which are created.

## Related Events
* `getgid` - get the group identity of the current process
* `setgroups` - call to set the supplemental group list

> This document was automatically generated by OpenAI and needs review. It might
> not be accurate and might contain errors. The authors of Tracee recommend that
> the user reads the "events.go" source file to understand the events and their
> arguments better.
